R4R: Docs: Building-modules section 2nd part (#5037)
cosmos/cosmos-sdk: docs/building-modules/invariants.md

# Invariants

## Pre-requisite Reading

- [Keepers](./keeper.md)

## Synopsis

An invariant is a property of the application that should always be true. An `Invariant` is a function that checks for a particular invariant. These functions are useful to detect bugs early on and act upon them to limit the potential consequences (e.g. by halting the chain). They are also useful in the development process of the application to detect bugs via simulations. 

> - [Implementing `Invariant`s](#implementing-invariants)

Reviewer: why the link to something directly beneath?

Author: It'll be turned in side menu on the website, for navigation within the page. 

We have table of content for the doc on each doc

func AllInvariants(k Keeper) sdk.Invariant {

	return func(ctx sdk.Context) (string, bool) {
		res, stop := BalanceInvariants(k)(ctx)
		if stop {
			return res, stop
		}

		return DepositsInvariant(k)(ctx)
	}
}
```

Finally, module developers need to implement the `RegisterInvariants` method as part of the [`AppModule` interface](./module-manager.md#appmodule). Indeed, the `RegisterInvariants` method of the module, implemented in the `module.go` file, typically only defers the call to a `RegisterInvariants` method implemented in `internal/keeper/invariants.go`. The `RegisterInvariants` method registers a route for each `Invariant` function in the [`InvariantRegistry`](#invariant-registry):

```go
// RegisterInvariants registers all staking invariants
func RegisterInvariants(ir sdk.InvariantRegistry, k Keeper) {
	ir.RegisterRoute(types.ModuleName, "module-accounts",
		BalanceInvariants(k))
	ir.RegisterRoute(types.ModuleName, "nonnegative-power",
		DepositsInvariant(k))
}
```

For more, see an example of [`Invariant`s implementation from the `staking` module](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/staking/keeper/invariants.go). 

## Invariant Registry

> The `InvariantRegistry` is a registry where the `Invariant`s of all the modules of an application are registered. Typically, it is implemented as a specific module. The module must implement an object that follow the [`sdk.InvariantRegistry` interface](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/types/invariant.go#L14-L17). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `InvariantRegistry` is a registry where the `Invariant`s of all the modules of an application are registered. Each module must implement an object that follows the [`sdk.InvariantRegistry` interface](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/types/invariant.go#L14-L17). 
```

This is confusing

Author: Hmm I see why you're confused. Maybe it shouldn't be in the `building-modules` section then. There is only one `InvariantRegistry` for the application, not one per module. This registry is implemented as a module (just like the `anteHandler`).

Author: Clarified

```go
type InvariantRegistry interface {
	RegisterRoute(moduleName, route string, invar Invariant)
}
```

> Typically, this interface is implemented in the module's `keeper`. You can see an example implementation of an `InvariantRegistry` from the `crisis` module [here](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/crisis/internal/keeper/keeper.go). s

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Typically, this interface is implemented in the module's `keeper`. You can see an example implementation of an `InvariantRegistry` from the `crisis` module [here](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/crisis/internal/keeper/keeper.go).
```

> `Invariant`s can be triggered manually via [`message`s](./messages-and-queries), but most often they are triggered automatically at the end of each block (see an example [here](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/crisis/abci.go)). In both cases, if one of the `Invariant`s returns false, the `InvariantRegistry` can trigger special logic (e.g. have the application panic and print the `Invariant`s message in the log).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Invariant`s can be checked manually via [`message`s](./messages-and-queries), but most often they are checked automatically at the end of each block (see an example [here](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/crisis/abci.go)). In both cases, if one of the `Invariant`s returns false, the `InvariantRegistry` can trigger special logic (e.g. have the application panic and print the `Invariant`s message in the log).
```

```go
// RegisterInvariants registers all staking invariants
func RegisterInvariants(ir sdk.InvariantRegistry, k Keeper) {
	ir.RegisterRoute(types.ModuleName, "module-accounts",
		BalanceInvariants(k))
	ir.RegisterRoute(types.ModuleName, "nonnegative-power",
		DepositsInvariant(k))
}
```

For more, see an example of [`Invariant`s implementation from the `staking` module](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/staking/keeper/invariants.go). 

## Invariant Registry

The `InvariantRegistry` is a registry where the `Invariant`s of all the modules of an application are registered. There is only one `InvariantRegistry` per **application**, meaning module developers need not implement their own `InvariantRegistry` when building a module. All module developers need to do is to register their modules' invariants in the `InvariantRegistry`, as explained in the section above. 

> Typically, the `InvariantRegistry` is implemented as a specific module (the most used implementation is that of the [`crisis` module](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/x/crisis/)). This module must implement an object that follow the [`sdk.InvariantRegistry` interface](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/types/invariant.go#L14-L17). 

Reviewer: this paragraph is confusing.  -- does the SDK contain the only instance of the  InvariantRegistry ? Does the crisis module contain another instance?
